hey how's it going Dave 2d here and this
is the Asus Zenbook Pro for 2017 this is
the UX 550 and this thing was announced
quite a few months ago I think was like
March at Computex when this thing was
revealed and I finally been able to
spend some time with it it's a very
powerful machine it's one of those thin
and light work oriented machines that
also has a gtx 1050 Ti so if you want to
play some games you can and this is the
type of stuff that gets me excited these
are the type of laptops that I'm most
interested in because I mean they're
kind of stealth like they don't look
like they're not they're not designed
for gaming but because of the video card
you'd think they'd be able to bang if
you really want them to this one you'll
see the end of the video as to why it's
not so much a gaming laptop but it is a
very good laptop for what it was meant
for I want to talk with the design first
first thing black this is the first Asus
laptop that I've used that was black so
fully black finished black top black
bottom there is a silver chamfer as you
go around the edges but the whole idea
of this thing is black the build quality
on this thing is good better than
expected and let me explain the UX 5:01
from last year and the year before had
okay build quality not amazing which the
panels were just a little softer when
you press down on them this thing is
definitely more rigid it's definitely
better build quality than the UX 5:01
but it's still not perfect there's still
a little bit of flex on all the panels
the top the bottom the keyboard deck the
screen itself
if you try to torque that it's super
solid I couldn't get it twisted the
hinges are all so well made the laptop
not whole I would consider to good build
quality not excellent I wish it was
better but it is good the port selection
on this thing is good is actually to
Thunderbolt 3 ports and those run on all
four lanes of PCIe so if you plug up an
external GPU you're gonna get max
bandwidth the thing that I don't love is
the inclusion of a micro SD slot now
it's cool that they have an SD p-- slot
at all but it's micro SD and this is a
pro laptop right this is the Zen Book
Pro and working professionals very few
of them are using micro SD s as their
main like form of data transfer it just
doesn't make sense that they put that
there it seems almost useless because
you're not gonna use that I would much
prefer to see a regular SD slot but
you're stuck
with that and that kind of bugs me
there's a lot of good stuff about this
laptop
I like the screen I like the speakers
the speakers are actually very very
impressive it has the Harman Kardon
branding and usually when you have that
kind of branding on a laptop it means
nothing this time there's four speakers
two on the top two on the bottom the
ones on the bottom are down firing and
they sound really good I was quite
impressed with it they don't sound super
loud but the audio quality is there the
mids the lows the highs they're all
present and they sound good
back to the screen up top this one's
running a 1080p panel they do make a 4k
panel if I'm not mistaken but this one's
1080p touchscreen the color accuracy is
there it's not super bright I wish it
was brighter but the overall image is
nice and the bezels on the screen aren't
too thick it's like I don't know it kind
of looks like the newer MacBooks in
terms of look the bezel thickness but
it's just an improvement over their
regular Asus Zenbook proline it's just a
thinner cleaner looking design up top
okay to get home the inside of this
laptop I've removed the screws but it's
pretty simple there's seven eight screws
they all pop off pretty easily t 4 and
when you get inside things get less
awesome so so far it seems like a really
good laptop right ok on the inside we
have a fast SSD which is good get a
great Wi-Fi card the Intel 1865 which is
good the RAM is soldered on and this
bugs me this is not like one of those
super thin laptops right so it doesn't
make sense to me that the RAM is
soldered on now maybe it was a space
issue maybe it was an energy efficiency
issue because you know when you solder
on RAM when it's built on board it uses
slightly less energy and if that's the
case fine but I just don't like seeing
soldered on RAM but the thing that bugs
me is the thermal design so we're
looking at two heat pipes to cool a gtx
1050 TI and an i7 7700 HQ so these are
ready hot components that's not like the
hottest stuff out there but they're not
cool components and you'll see in the
thermal performance later on that they
don't do great and the battery down here
is a 72 watt hour cell it's getting
around 6 hours of battery life for the
screen at 215 it's so this is probably
in the middle of the pack in terms of
battery life it's because it's not a
huge battery it's kind of a small
chassis so
the batteries there's only so much space
in here but if you're gonna bring this
thing to class or to work and you're
expecting a full day of use out of it
you're probably gonna bring the charger
with you just because it's a little bit
tight um before I get into performance
because I know that's what a lot of
people are interested in I want to talk
about the keyboard and the track better
so keyboard is a very standard asu's
keyboard it's a good keyboard the home
page up page down buttons are on the
side and I like them there but not
everyone does because if you're not used
to them being there if you're trying to
hit backspace or shift or enter you
might hit those keys but I like them
there because if you want to you can use
them and you will get used to their
positioning it doesn't interfere with my
regular typing anymore but for people
that haven't used an Asus keyboard like
this before
there's a bit of a learning curve the
keystrokes themselves are a little bit
soft but firm at the same time it's hard
to describe but basically the pressure
that it takes to activate the switch is
a little more than your average keyboard
but the spring feels softer so it's a
different type of experience than I'm
used to
I just haven't used an Asus keyboard for
a while but you'll get used to it
quickly because when I use this thing
for like three four months before not
this one but a keyboard very similar to
this you get used to it and it's not a
problem
trackpad good trackpad probably its best
feature in terms of the inputs it uses
windows precision drivers so it's got
accurate tracking and as a fingerprint
sensor for quick logins and stuff in
Windows hello okay let's talk about
performance because that's probably the
most important thing because if it
doesn't have good performance nothing
matters right okay the performance on
this thing I got to open her back up to
kind of show what I'm talking about is
good for certain people and not so good
for other people so this ins running
like I said earlier that 1050 Ti and a
7700 HQ the KB Lake i7 and because the
thermal output on these two chips is
quite high it's difficult to cool
something like this in a chassis this
small and this compact and with the heat
pipes that they have because there's
only two maybe even one and a half heat
pipes you're not gonna get the best
cooling if you're doing work stuff if
you're doing like video edits and
vendors and stuff this is sufficient
because you're not stressing the GPU at
a hundred percent all the time and your
workload because you're kind of using
the GPU here and there
you do stuff in Photoshop or Premiere so
I ran some video edits and I ran some
renders this thing runs really well
you're getting the performance you would
expect just on the paper specs the 1050
Ti is a good card for video editing but
when you start playing games that's when
issues start to rise the temps creep up
and after like 20 30 minutes of gaming
you're gonna notice some serious thermal
throttling and you could probably
resolve this if you re paste it or if
you undervolt it and I mean you can I'm
not gonna do it on this unit and I'm
positive that if you did if you repay
stood this and if you under volt of this
you would get better performance but I
wouldn't pick up this laptop if your
main purpose is to play games it's a
really nice looking laptop and it's slim
but because of the thermal issues
I can't just openly recommend it for
people who are quote unquote gamers the
fans don't come on very often when it's
idle it's actually very quiet but at
full load it's a little bit loud not
super annoying or anything but it can
get loud so this is a laptop that was
designed for professional users right
it's a Zen Book Pro and I think because
of what it's equipped with because it
has a 1050 Ti because it has an i7 I
think a lot of people are drawn to the
specs and think hey I can pick this up
and play games really well on it but
that's not what it was designed for
unfortunately it's a really nice looking
laptop it's not super expensive I think
the base model starts at 14 $1500 this
unit here with everything I've decked it
out with seventeen hundred dollars but
yeah if you're a gamer and you're hoping
that this would be like the gaming
laptop that didn't look like a gaming
laptop this is not that laptop I'm sorry
I was disappointed and I feel like a lot
of my viewers were really interested in
this thing because it had such potential
but no it's not the one okay hope you
guys enjoyed this video thumbs if you
liked it
sub C if you loved it see you guys next
time if you're curious like if you're
looking for other options I don't know
if anyone is still sticking around to
this part of the video but if you're
curious I've been using the arrow 15 X
so this is the upgraded model this is
not that different in size from the Zen
Book Pro it's a completely different
price point this is significantly more
expensive but they've designed this
thing to house a gtx 1070
it's a signal video card but it's
similar in size but the way that they're
doing is that they have to crack this
thing open and like they're putting a
ton of venting on this thing to make it
more viable for gaming and that's not
what the Zenbook does they try to keep
it clean and minimal and just very nice
looking it does look a heck of a lot
nicer than this like look at this but
this thing is where you're gonna get
performance if you want something that's
built for gaming look at other options
like this the Aero 15 this is actually
the Aero 15 X okay see you guys next
video
[Music]